# 1. Stay Invested In The Market

## Introduction
1. No one can time the market perfectly, and in fact you can lose out on future opportunities when you sell your investments.

## The Importance Of Staying Invested
1. For those who have a long time horizon until they will need to touch their money, the wisest move is simply to stay the course and the data has shown this.
2. Small and large stocks have provided the highest returns and largest increases in wealth.

## Period of Consecutive Negative Stock Returns
1. Ceasing regular investments during market downturns can sometimes deprive you of future opportunities.
2. Investors must have discipline and patience especially during market downturns.
   1. Well diversification.
   2. Dollar cost averaging vs. lump sum purchases.
   3. Staying focussed on the long term.
3. Even with diversification and dollar cost averaging there are risks involved as stocks can be volatile.

## Crises and Long-Term Performance
1. Economies and markets move in cycles.
2. It's impossible to time the market - panic can ensue when the market falls.
3. Historical data suggests that holding on can pay off in the long run.
   1. USD 1 invested in January 1970 grew to USD $153.91 by December 2019, generating a 10.6% compound annual return
4. In the past, when looking at the big picture, every crisis has been eclipsed by long-term growth.

## Stock Performance after Recessions
1. The cumulative returns of small stocks outperformed those of large stocks after recessions.
2. Investors fear the volatility of small stocks but in so, ignore the potential of growth.
3. Small stocks haven’t outperformed large stocks after every recession, yet on average their potential to lead the way out of recessions is significant.
4. Diversifying into small stocks may benefit investor portfolios, especially when the market is coming out of a recession.

## History Of Interest Rates
1. Interest rates react to changes in economic cycles.
2. The U.S. Federal Reserve sets the target federal-funds rate and tries to achieve that target by buying and selling securities in the federal open market.
3. The interest rates on bonds are affected by the demand for loanable funds.
4. During an economic expansion, the demand for funds tends to cause interest rates to rise, increasing the costs of borrowing.
5. During an economic contraction or recession, the demand for loans is low and interest rates tend to decline.