# Introduction to Asset Classes and Downturns

1. This course looked at downturns and recoveries with respect to the asset classes involved.
2. Skillful use of balancing and correlation can reduce the risk of loss during a market downturn.
3. Different investments behave differently in different market conditions, though in rare cases they can behave contrary to how we would expect.

## Bond Yields During Recessions
1. Bond yields are driven by factors such as the supply and demand for loans, monetary policy, and inflation expectations.
2. During recessions, the demand for loans falls, and the Fed lowers rates to reduce the cost of borrowing to help stimulate consumer spending.
3. During expansions, the Fed may want to keep inflation in check and "tighten" monetary policy by increasing interest rates.
4. Bond yields, especially long-term bond yields, are sensitive to inflation expectations because inflation can erode the value of a bond over time.
5. There has been a general decline of rates since the recession in 1982.
6. Bond yields and prices move in opposite directions. When yields for new bonds fall, existing bonds with higher yields become more valuable and can demand a higher price. Conversely, when yields for new bonds rise, the prices of existing bonds fall in order to compete with the increased demand for new bonds.

## Stock Returns and Monetary Policy
1. Historically, recessionary periods have been marked by stock market underperformance and a lowering of the federal-funds rate.
2. In a recession, the Fed’s response is usually to decrease the federal-funds rate, which is an expansionary monetary policy.
3. When the economy is doing poorly, the Fed typically lowers the Fed funds rate, increasing the money supply, and spurring economic activity. 
4. Conversely, the end of recessionary periods has been marked by stock market outperformance and an eventual increase in the federal-funds rate as the economic boom is reined in by a reduction in the money supply.
5. It is difficult to predict the exact duration of economic cycles, but for the most part, the Fed’s actions and consequent rate movements coincide with up and down swings in stock performance.

## Correlations of Various Asset Classes with the Market
1. In a downturn, an investor would like, if possible, to be invested in the asset classes least correlated with the market.
2. Diversification does not eliminate the risk of experiencing investment losses.
3. Risk of commodities, REITs, stocks and bond have to be examined in depth to be characterized as good diversification tools.

## U.S. Market Recovery after Financial Crises: Balanced Portfolio
1. A balanced portfolio can help mitigate some of the risk of loss.
   1. A balanced portfolio consists a mix of stocks and bonds.
2. In the short term, uncertainty from such external shocks can create sudden drops in value.
3. The lesson here is that patience can pay dividends.
   1. Fear and uncertainty might lead investors to sell their investments during tough times, putting downward pressure on prices
   2. Trading because of these emotions can be detrimental to a portfolio’s value.
   3. By selling during downward price pressures, investors might realize short-term losses. 
   4. Furthermore, this is compounded as investors wait and hesitate to get back into the market, possibly missing some or all of the potential recovery.
4. Diversification can also limit losses during turbulent market conditions. 
   1. One of the main advantages of diversification is reducing risk over the long run, not necessarily increasing return.
   2. Diversification does not eliminate the risk of experiencing investment losses.
5. Stocks have historically been more volatile than bonds.

## U.S. Market Recovery after Financial Crises: All-Stock Portfolio
1. Stock prices suffer during financial crises, but they typically recover over time.
2. In the short term, uncertainty from such external shocks can create sudden drops in value.
3. Over longer periods of time, however, returns were much more attractive, and investors who stayed the course reaped considerable rewards.
4. Patience is a virtue in investing.