# Risk And Volatility Data

## Reduction of Risk Over Time
1. Data on risk and volatility shows that the range of returns appears less volatile with longer holding periods.
2. Over the long term, periods of high returns tend to offset periods of low returns.
3. With the passage of time, these offsetting periods result in the dispersion of returns gravitating or converging toward the average.
   1. In other words, while returns may fluctuate widely from year to year, holding the asset for longer periods of time results in apparent decreased volatility.

## Stock and Bond Volatility Varies
1. Stocks have been more volatile than bonds on a month-to-month basis. 
2. Over the long term, however, stock investors have been rewarded for assuming this greater volatility.

## Risk of Stock Market Loss over Time
1. Though stocks are often considered by some to be risky investments, long-term gains have been demonstrated to offset short-term losses for the long-term investor.
2. Although long-term gains of stocks has been historically demonstrated, stocks always involves risk, including the possibility of losing the entire investment more so than bonds.

## Risk Changes over Time
1. While small stocks and large stocks are more volatile than government bonds and Treasury bills, there are times when assets considered less risky exhibit greater volatility.
2. Risk is measured by the standard deviation of annual returns.
   1. It measures the fluctuation of returns around the arithmetic average return of the investment.
   2. The higher the standard deviation, the greater the variability (and thus risk) of the investment returns.