# [AsyncGuidance](https://github.com/davidfowl/AspNetCoreDiagnosticScenarios/blob/0ba7625050f975f8a7df1df57c80ad08da250541/AsyncGuidance.md)

## Asynchronous Programming
1. Asynchrony is viral.
   1. Partial synchrony can be a deterrent to performance as it could mean blocking somewhere.
2. Avoid ``async void`` signatures
   1. Crash the process if an exception is thrown.
   2. ``Task`` returning methods are better since unhandled exceptions trigger the TaskScheduler.UnobservedTaskException Event.
3. For trivially computed data, use ``Task.FromResult`` vs. ``Task.Run``.
   1. ``Task.Run`` will end up queuing work on the ThreadPool and therefore, add overhead vs. a simple task wrapped with precomputed data.
   2. Use a ``ValueTask<T>`` to prevent heap allocations especially with trivial computations.
4. Avoid using ``Task.Run`` for long running work that blocks the thread.
   1. Stealing a thread pool thread for long running work is bad since it takes that thread away from other work that could be done (timer callbacks, task continuations etc). 
   2. Instead, spawn a new thread manually to do long running blocking work.
   3. Too many threads cause a lot of context switch and can cause performance degradation.
   4. ``Task.Factory.StartNew`` allows ``TaskCreationOptions.LongRunning`` that'll create a new thread for you.
      1. Using this properly requires a lot of non-default parameters and therefore, stick to creating a new thread.
5. Avoid using ``Task.Result`` and ``Task.Wait``
   1. These cause ``sync over async`` where the caller is blocked on an asynchronous operation that can severely degrade performance.
      1. Leads to threadpool starvation as two threads instead of 1 are used.
   2. Causes Deadlocks if used on the main thread.
6. Prefer ``await`` over ``ContinueWith``
   1. Code reads more sequentially and cleanly.
   2. ``ContinueWith`` doesn't capture the ``SynchronizationContext``.
7. Create ``TaskCompletionSource<T>`` with ``TaskCreationOptions.RunContinuationsAsynchronously``.
   1. By default, TaskContinuations run inline on the same thread and this can lead to unexpected behavior.
8. Dispose ``CancellationTokenSource<T>`` used for timeouts
   1. Lead to badness like memory leaks.
9. Always flow ``CancellationTokens`` to APIs that take ``CancellationTokens``.
10. Prefer ``async/await`` over directly returning ``Task``

## Pertinent Scenarios
1. Constructors are Synchronous => Use A Static Factory Pattern to allow async construction.