# [Async in Depth](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/async-in-depth)

1. __Promise Model Of Concurrency__: A promise is an objectification of some work that will be completed at a later point of time. Adoption of the Promise Model of Concurrency is achieved by the ``Task`` and ``Task<T>`` abstraction.
2. ``Task`` and ``Task<T>`` are abstractions of work and not threads.
3. ``Task.Run`` allows you to schedule work on another thread.
4. Using ``await`` allows your application to perform useful work while a task is running by yielding control to its caller until the task is done.
   1. Yielding => Not blocking the caller.
5. __Inner Workings of I/O-Bound Operations__
   1. Calls from the BCL eventually call a P/Invoke interop call into a native networking library.
   2. The native library will call a syscall.
   3. A task object will be created at the native/managed boundary.
   4. The task object will be passed up back to the initial caller.
   5. Control is yielded to the caller while the I/O bound work continues.
   6. The syscall goes to kernel space making its way into the networking subsystem handling the request asynchronously.
   7. The runtime is informed that the networking request is in progress.
   8. The network device driver will asynchronously handle the request. In the Windows OS, the network operation is relayed to the device driver using Interrupt Request Packet (IRP).
   9. When the request is fulfilled and data comes back through the device driver, it notifies the CPU of new data via an interrupt. 
   10. The data is then passed through to the system interop call.
   11. The result is queued up until the next available thread is able to execute the async method.
   12. Throughout this, there is no dedicated thread to run the task i.e. no thread being blocked i.e. asynchrony is the common factor.
6.  In the server case, you can expect a higher capacity of requests using ``async`` and ``await`` than having a certain number of dedicated threads.
7.  In the client case, higher responsiveness will ensue as the UI thread will not be blocked as it could dedicate cycles responding to other events.
8.  __Inner Workings of CPU-Bound Operations__
    1. There is no avoiding having a dedicated thread for the CPU intensive computation.
    2. By using ``await`` on a long running task, you don't block the calling thread i.e. still ensure responsiveness.