# [Understanding async/await State Machine in .NET](https://mykkon.work/async-state-machine/)

1. How async-await is achieved under the hood is via:
   1. Syntactic sugar the compiler understands.
   2. An ``Async State Machine``.
2. Only mark methods ``async`` if there is an ``await`` inside as the extra machinery will add overhead.
3. The compiler generates two main constructs. 
   1. The ``AsyncTaskBuilder``: Responsible for keeping and updating the state of the task and invoking the State Machine.
   2. ``AsyncStateMachine``: Responsible for handling the actions of the State Machine.
      1. The ``IAsyncStateMachine`` interface that each ``Async State Machine`` inherits from includes 2 methods:
         1. ``MoveNext()`` that moves to the next state and is responsible for state management.
            1. There are 3 different states a state machine can be in:
               1. Completed
               2. Created
               3. Awaiting
            2. Checks if the awaiter is completed or not and mutates the state of the state machine / Task.
               1. The TaskAwaiter is the abstraction that waits for the completion of the asynchronous task and provides a parameter for the result.
                  1. Essentially, we call ``GetAwaiter()`` to grab this object.
            3. Once the state machine has completed, it calls ``Builder.SetResult()``.
         2. ``SetStateMachine`` sets the state machine allocated on the heap.
4. Series of Events: 
   1. The State Machine ``.ctor() : IAsyncStateMachine``.
   2. ``AsyncTaskMethodBuilder.ctor()``.
   3. ``Builder.Start()``: Scheduling of tasks is done here.
      1. ``StateMachine.MoveNext()``
         1. If operation can be performed synchronously -> ``Task.ExecuteEntry()``.
         2. Else -> ``TaskScheduler.Queue()``.
      2. Completed ``Task`` is returned to the caller.