# [Six Essential Tips For Async](https://channel9.msdn.com/Series/Three-Essential-Tips-for-Async/Three-Essential-Tips-For-Async-Introduction)

## How Async-Await Works
1. At the first await in a method
   1. Task awaited gets saved on the heap. 
   2. Control flow returns back to the caller.
      1. If we await a Task in an event handler, the control flow goes back to the message pump.
         1. Making it responsive to further UI interactions.
   3. When the awaited task completes, it is available for the message pump to resume execution where it left off. It's like a hyperspace jump.
   4. The awaited task is subsequently marked as 'completed' ready for the message pump to handle.

## Tips

### Tip 1: Async Void is for top level event handlers only
1. STOP using Async Void and use Async Task instead.
2. Async Void is a fire and forget as there is no Task returned.
   1. The caller is unable to know when the async void has returned.
   2. The caller is unable to catch exceptions thrown from an async void.
      1. As async void is fire and forget, the control of the exception will happen after any try-catch blocks and will not get caught in the appropriate spot.
      2. They are posted to the UI message loop.
3. Ways to replace async-void:
   1. Inability to change the method signature => Wrap the resource in a Task and await the task in the top level context.
   2. Can't use await in a constructor => use an async factory method instead.
   3. Can't use await in property getters => make it an async method than a property.
   4. Async event handlers are re-entrant => temporarily disable UI. 
4. An async lambda can be either void returning or Task returning.
   1. If both overloads are offered, it will pick the Task returning.
   2. WHENEVER you see an async lambda, you need to verify whether it will be a void-returning or Task-returning lambda.

### Tip 2: Use thread pool for CPU bound code but not for IO bound code
1. Whenever you are writing async code, ask yourself: is it CPU bound work or bound by network requests or any other I/O.
2. By using the TPL for I/O bound such as parallelizing the work, you run the risk of the thread pool injecting more threads as there will be idle time waiting for the I/O bound work to complete.
3. __CPU bound work__
   1. LINQ over objects or big iterations or computationally expensive inner loops. 
   2. ``Parallel.ForEach`` and ``Task.Run`` are good ways to put CPU bound work on the thread pool. 
   3. The thread pool, using a Hill Climbing algorithm, will gradually feel out how many threads are needed to make best progress.
   4. Use of threads will never increase throughput on a machine that's already under load. Such as the case of servers.
   5. Use TPL here.
   6. No keyword in the language will put work onto the thread pool. Only way work is going to be added onto the thread pool is if you call an API that does it.
   7. Limit the scope of the Task.Run to just the heavy computation.
4. For I/O bound stuff, use ``await`` rather than background threads / thread pool threads as you aren't blocking their usage.

### Tip 3: Async tasks can wrap around events with TaskCompletionSource, to make code simpler
1. Dealing with events and callbacks is a difficult technique to master.
2. If event handlers are largely independent, then leave them as events. But if they look like a state machine, then await is sometimes easier.
   1. To turn events into awaitable tasks, use ``TaskCompletionSource``.
3. ``TaskCompletionSource`` is a factory for creating ``Task`` objects.
   1. ``Task`` objects can be in one of two states:
      1. Not Yet Completed
      2. Completed
4. ``TrySetResult``: Attempts to transition the underlying Task<TResult> into the RanToCompletion state.
5. Wrapping the event into a task allows you to simply and sequentially structure code.

### Tip 4: Async Methods shouldn't lie
1. A method without the ``Async`` suffix should be assumed to be synchronous namely, expected to block or regain control once it's completed.
2. A method with the ``Async`` suffix should be assumed to initiate a task and regain control immediately if it's awaited.
3. The Dangers of Using ``Task.Run`` in Your Library
   1. The thread pool is an app-global resource
      1. Number of threads available is variable.
   2. In a server app, spinning up threads hurts scalability
      1. New threads can cause hard-to-diagnose scalability bottlenecks.
      2. Use async code all the way down.
   3. The app is in the best position to manage its threads
      1. Don't hide functionality if it is truly synchronous i.e. don't lie about it being asynchronous by calling a sync method in a ``Task.Run``, it'll only burn cycles of the thread pool thread and won't be classically asynchronous. 
4. Calling async code synchronously can block the UI thread and cause responsiveness issues or worse, a deadlock if you call ``.Wait()`` on a task. 
   1. When the awaited task completes, it'll want to resume work on the UI thread and that'll be deadlocked as the UI thread will be blocked by the ``.Wait()`` call. 
5. Libraries that suffix their methods with ``Async`` shouldn't call the thread pool in secret.

### Tip 5: Async libraries APIs should be chunky
1. Async perf overhead is fine, unless you have a chatty API. It should have a chunky API and not a chatty one.
2. Async-Awaitness automatically causes more allocations that could make GC'ing expensive.
3. Each async method involves the following allocations:
   1. A state machine class holding the method's local variables and current state.
   2. A delegate.
   3. Returned task object that's a reference type. 
4. Fast Path in awaits
   1. If the method skips await, it just allocates the ``Task``.
   2. If the awaited task is already completed, it skips all the await/resume work.
   3. If the return type is common like ``Task<bool>``, the BCL has already alloc'd Task of the common result such as Task of true and Task of false, so no additional allocations will happen if there are no awaits.
   4. Alternatively, if the return type isn't common, you use caching to not allocate for each Task.
5. The heap is an app-global resource.
6. async allocations can hurt GC perf.
7. If your library has to have chatty async code i.e. a lot of async allocations are incurred optimize the fast path.

### Tip 6: Async library methods should consider using ``Task.ConfigureAwait(false)``
1. Sync context represents a "target for work".
2. Await task uses Synchronization Context.
   1. It captures the current synchronization context before awaiting.
   2. Upon task completion, it calls ``SyncContext.Post()`` to resume __where you were before__.
      1. For example, if you were on the UI thread before awaiting, ``Post()`` will continue on the UI thread.
3. For app level code, resuming where you left off before is fine; more specifically, it is fine in UI code.
4. For library code, the context where you left off is rarely needed.
   1. Instead use ``.ConfigureAwait(false)``.
      1. This suppresses the need to ``Post`` back to the previously captured context prior to the first await.
      2. If possible, it resumes on the thread that completed the task.
5. The result of using of ``ConfigureAwait(false)`` is marginally better performance as it avoid the overhead of going back to the original context.
6. You can also avoid deadlocks with ``ConfigureAwait(false)`` if a badly-written user blocks e.g. in the case of ``.Wait()`` on a task.
7. The UI message-queue is an app-global resource.
8. Too much switching can cause UI responsiveness issues.
9. If your method calls a chatty async API, but doesn't touch the UI, use ``ConfigureAwait(false)``.