# [ConfigureAwait FAQ](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/configureawait-faq/)

1. What is a ``Synchronization Context``?
   1. Just provides a virtual ``Post`` method that takes a delegate and executes it asynchronously.
   2. Benefit is that it provides a single API that can be used to queue a delegate for handling however the creator of implementation desires, without needing to know the implementation.
2. What is a ``Task Scheduler``?
   1. Synchronization Context is a generalization of a Task Scheduler. 
   2. When Tasks are backed by a delegate such that they can be queued and executed, they’re associated with a ``System.Threading.Tasks.TaskScheduler``.
   3. ``QueueTask`` method is provided.
   4. ``TaskScheduler.Default`` == ThreadPool
   5. Current Scheduler is the one associated with running the Task.
3. How do SychronizationContext and TaskSchedule relate to await?
   1. await __just__ works as awaiting a task pays attention by default to ``SynchronizationContext.Current`` and ``TaskScheduler.Current``.
   2. When you await, the compiler generates code that asks the awaitable for an awaiter.
      1. This awaiter is responsible for hooking up the callback / continuation back to the state machine
   3. await checks whether there is a ``SynchronizationContext`` set and if there is, it'll use the captured scheduler otherwise, it’ll generally just execute the callback on as part of the operation completing the awaited task.
4. What does ``ConfigureAwait(false)`` do?
   1. 