# Chapter 12: Synchronization

1. When your application makes use of concurrency then you need to watch out for situations in which one piece of code needs to update data while other code needs to access the same data.
   1. __Synchronizing__ access is needed for correctness.
2. Types of Synchronization
   1. __Communication__
      1. One piece of code needs to notify another piece of code of some condition. 
      2. E.g.: New data has arrived.
   2. __Data Protection__
      1. To protect shared data, you need synchronization when the 3 following conditions are true:
         1. Multiple pieces of code are running concurrently.
         2. Pieces are accessing the same data.
            1. No need for synchronization iff:
               1. If piece only has local data, no need for synchronization.
                  1. We could need synchronization in case of a local variable if it's shared between multiple threads.
               2. If there is shared data but it's immutable or read-only after getting set once.
               3. If context is a one-at-a-time context e.g. in the UI thread vs. a thread pool thread.
         3. At least one piece is writing to the data.
      2. Purpose of data protection is to provide a consistent view of data.
      3. Using synchronization, you can make data access seem atomic from vis-a-vis context.
      4. When your code uses immutable collections, it’s common to have a shared “root” variable that is not itself immutable.
         1. df = df.add(1)
3. __Blocking Locks__
   1. Use the ``lock`` statement that uses ``Monitor``.
   2. ``lock`` handles 99% of cases well.
   3. Guideline using locks:
      1. Restrict lock visibility.
         1. make object to lock ``private readonly``.
         2. You should never lock(this) or lock on any instance of ``Type`` or ``string``; these locks can cause deadlocks because they are accessible from other code.
      2. Document what the lock protects.
      3. Minimize code under lock.
      4. Never execute arbitrary code while holding a lock.
         1. Arbitrary code can include raising events, invoking virtual methods, or invoking delegates.
4. __Async Locks__
   1. awaitable locks to prevent blocking.
   2. ``SemaphoreSlim`` can be awaited using ``WaitAsync()``.
   3. ``AsyncLock`` is also available.
5. __Blocking Signals__
   1. Sending notifications from one thread to another.
   2. ``ManualResetEvent`` is most common.
      1. 2 states: signaled or unsignaled.
      2. ``Wait()`` blocks the thread until signaled.
      3. ``Set()`` notifies the block thread to wake up. 
6. __Async Signals__
   1. ``TaskCompletionSource<T>`` can be used if the notification to be sent once.
      1. Since ``TaskCompletionSource<T>`` is a Task factory, the ``TrySetResult`` method can be used to complete the task awaited thereby signaling in a non-blocking way.
   2. ``AsyncManualResetEvent`` allows you to send the notification multiple times.
7. __Throttling__
   1. For highly concurrent code that's causing threadpool starvation / lock contention, you need some way to throttle the concurrency.
   2. Code is too concurrent when parts of the application are unable to keep up with other parts, causing data items to build up and consume memory.Code is too concurrent when parts of the application are unable to keep up with other parts, causing data items to build up and consume memory.
   3. You can use ``MaxDegreeOfParallelism`` to adjust the degrees of parallelism.
   4. ``SemaphoreSlims`` allow you to throttle concurrency asynchronously.
