# [Investigating thread starvation issues](https://github.com/microsoft/vs-threading/blob/main/doc/threadpool_starvation.md)

1. __Thread pool starvation__: Cases where tasks dispatched to the managed thread pool don't start executing immediately due to other work on the thread pool.
2. __The effects of thread pool starvation__
   1. Task execution delays
      1. In the server case this could mean not fulfilling requests as fast as possible.
   2. Unresponsive UI: If the main thread is blocked on a task to complete that doesn't execute immediately, it results in unresponsive UIs.
3. __CLR Thread Pool Details__ 
   1. CLR Threads are designed for short running tasks that don't block. 
      1. Long running tasks that block e.g. in the case of network I/O are usually the cause.
   2. 2 Statistics that matter are:
      1. __# of Reserved Threads__: Number of Physical threads created / destroyed. Requested by the thread pool from the OS.
      2. __# of Active Threads__: Subset of 1. i.e. the number of threads at a point of time used for executing jobs.
   3. Cases with Tasks If Work Is Required
      1. IF count of work required to be completed <= Min Thread [ Defaulted to # of Cores ]: Reserved threads will be created and available on demand.
      2. IF count of work required > Min Threads:
         1. CLR will either:
            1. Promote Active Threads from the Reserved Threads.
            2. Add more Reserved Threads.
         2. Throughput will be monitored throughout.
            1. Some cases, CLR will decrease the Active threads to tune and see if there is any effect on throughput with less parallel work.
   4. Cases with Tasks If NOT Further Work Is Required
      1. CLR will demote active threads to reserved threads.
         1. Reserved thread will only be destroyed if they aren't used for a while i.e. order of minutes.
4. __Investigating Thread Pool Starvations In Perf View__
   1. ``When`` column in CPU / Thread Time stacks give an indication how much the CPU is churning.
      1. IFF a lot of threads are idle && work isn't getting accomplished, there is suspicion that there could be thread pool starvation going on.
   2. ``BLOCKED_TIME`` in Thread Time stacks is important to note. Find out __what__ is blocking.
      1. Could be:
         1. Threads getting blocked.
         2. Lock contention.
5. __Avoiding Thread Pool Starvation__
   1. __Blocking Thread Pool Threads__
      1. Mitigation: Use ``async-await`` to not block.
   2. __Flooding The Thread Pool__
      1. Long queues representing tasks to execute can make the UI sluggish. 
         1. Mitigation: Use throttling.
            1. Can use the scheduler from ``ConcurrentExclusiveSchedulerPair`` with a bumped min threads count to throttle like [here](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/premier-developer/limiting-concurrency-for-faster-and-more-responsive-apps/)
   3. __Lock contention__
      1. Mitigation: Avoid lock contention by throttling down concurrency (perhaps to just one sequential operation at once) or using a lock-free design.
6. __Misc__ 
   1. Once all thread pool threads have blocked at the same time, the CLR will wait one second before adding another thread to the thread pool in an attempt to make more progress.
      1.  Each second that passes without progress another thread may be added.