# [Diagnosing .NET Core ThreadPool Starvation with PerfView (Why my service is not saturating all cores or seems to stall).](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/archive/blogs/vancem/diagnosing-net-core-threadpool-starvation-with-perfview-why-my-service-is-not-saturating-all-cores-or-seems-to-stall)

1. Loss of throughput because of thread pool starvation causes lack of progress as threads have stalled to continue the execution.
   1. In certain cases, even though you can handle throughput, you can't handle 'bursts' of loads.
   2. The bottleneck is not CPU.
2.  __What Is The Thread Pool?__
    1.  __What Is A Thread?__
        1.  Thread is the state needed to execute a sequential program.
        2.  Good analogy: ``call-stack`` of partially executed methods including local variables.
        3.  Code needs a thread to run in.
    2.  A thread pool allows you to reuse a thread to accomplish many things concurrently.
3.  __What Is Asynchronous Programming?__
    1.  Having individual threads doing specific things is very expensive as allocating threads is very expensive.
    2.  In asynchronous programming, rather than having a thread per work item, you schedule callbacks for long running I/O and reuse threads to do other processing.
    3.  Asynchronous code uses the threadpool to get this thread run this small chunk of code, and then return the thread to the pool so the thread can run some other (unrelated) chunk.
4.  __Why do High-scale Asynchronous Services have Problems with ThreadPool Starvation?__
    1.  If your application uniformly uses async style of programming, then your service scales well.
        1.  Threads never block and therefore, only a modest number of threads are needed.
    2. ANY blocking bumps up the number of threads needed to be active in the thread pool exponentially.
    3. You only get the benefits of asynchronous code if you 'almost never block'.   If you DO block, and you are running at high scale, you are very likely to quickly exhaust the Threadpool's threads.
    4. The threadpool will try to compensate, but it will take a while, and frankly you lost the benefits of being async.
    5. The correct solution is to avoid blocking on the 'hot' paths in an high scale service.
5. __What Typically Causes Blocking?__
   1.  Synchronous I/O.
   2.  ``Task.Wait()`` or ``Task.Result``.
6.  __How do I know that the ThreadPool is starved for threads?__
    1.  Symptom: CPU isn't as saturated as you want.
    2. Detection:
       1. New threads are slowly injected.
          1. In perfview check the ``Windows Kernel/Thread/Start`` event.
7. __Finding the blocking API__
   1. Look at the Thread Time stacks of the ``BLOCKED_TIME``.
8. __Work Around__
   1. Force more threads in the thread pool by using ``ThreadPool.SetMinThreads``.
   2. Generally a bad solution.. - stop-gap measure.